- [Instructor] As previously mentioned,
point to point asynchronous messaging
is one of the most common uses of this communication style.
I want to take a look at when you would use it
and how it is constructed.
The use cases can be endless,
but they tend to fall into a few groups of classifications.
The first and probably the most common
is when no response is needed.
If the client or the service doesn't really need to know
that the task is done,
there is no real valid reason to wait for it to finish.
As such, you can produce a message and fire it off
and essentially forget about it.
A place I've used this a lot is with audit records
that are not mission-critical.
If the audit record itself
is not a hard and fast system requirement,
there is no reason to wait for it to get written.
You can fire a message to the message broker
intended for the audit system
and just expect it to get written.
Now, of course you cannot guarantee
that it is written or even done so
in a timely matter in this model,
but with proper tuning, you will get the record written
with a high degree of success
and save yourself some processing time
that isn't so critical.
Another use case is when you have admin tasks
that need to happen.
I've used this for cleanup operations on aggregated data
that was denormalized for efficiencies in an RDBMS system.
When I rolled up data to a new view,
I had no need for the original pieces of data any longer,
so I fired off a message that triggered
the cleanup operation to remove those individual pieces.
This not only allowed my aggregated data queries
to be more efficient,
but it also let the single process move faster
since it just aggregated
and left the cleanup to another process.
The beauty of this model is that if a task
didn't execute for some reason,
because the data was time series in nature,
the next admin task execution
would clean up after the failed attempt.
And this is a case where I ignore DLQ.
In this case, I only cared if I missed X number of attempts,
because that was an indication
that something was really wrong.
There are other out of band processes
that may need to be run as well
that can benefit from point to point asynchronous messaging.
Consider the case of sending an email.
Email itself is asynchronous
and not guaranteed for delivery.
As such, there's no real reason to wait around
for the building of the email and sending it out,
since after all, it will just be an empty result at the end.
As such, I have built communication systems
for other developers to consume,
and I implemented them with asynchronous messaging.
The producer would put a message on a queue
and my communication service would pick it up
and send the email.
In the end, nothing was guaranteed anyway,
so the improved efficiencies were well worth it.
Scaling your system is a huge implication
of all asynchronous messaging
and indeed it was a drive
behind many of the aforementioned use cases.
Once you start offloading the processing
and blocking nature of calls
that would qualify for asynchronous messaging,
it becomes easier to scale the system.
You start scaling it based on the true blocking calls,
instead of everything being a wait and see system
that hinders scaling.
By isolating these jobs,
you can scale them individually and with solid data
while leaving the client-side systems
to be scaled based on the real needs
and not unnecessary waiting.
This system is built of several components
with distinct lines of communication between them.
We start our system with a message broker
as it is the heart of our system as a whole.
We then create our producer,
it will be called synchronously in this example
by some external system.
The RESTful message will come in and start the process.
Now our producer knows about the message broker
and how to communicate with it.
We then need some downstream action to take place,
and this is where the consumer comes into play.
It is responsible for all of the activity that occurs
once the message is produced.
Usually the real heavy lifting is in this component.
It also knows about the message broker,
but in a little bit different way.
Usually the consumer attaches directly to the message broker
and actively listens or polls the message broker
for a new message.
It then goes into a quote unquote idle state
until the next polling time triggers
for the message to be listened for.
Now, the original service makes a call to the producer
and blocks, waiting for a response.
The producer creates a message based on the contract
for the system and puts the message on the broker.
At this point, the producer can return its response
to the original service, usually with an accepted status.
Now the message will move to the message broker
and be put on the appropriate queue.
The message broker will then present the message.
The consumer, during its next listen phase,
will receive the message,
which is now cleared from the message broker
once the act is received and it is done.
Now, keep in mind,
the act time is determined by the consumer.
It can wait to acknowledge the message until it is done,
or it can do so immediately, which is the most common case.
It will then do its own processing,
and communication is now complete.
Now there are a few things to consider when just going out
and implementing this strategy for all of your calls.
The first is wire time.
If the act of building the message,
setting up the connection to the message broker,
and sending the message takes as long
or more than just making the downstream call,
you may want to consider that in your design,
are you really saving time?
Now, because in either a RESTful call
or in a message broker call
the setup and tear down is often similar,
as such, be wary when people say
that the wire time increase in cost
makes this not a viable solution.
Along the same lines,
building extra components isn't always worth it,
especially if the consumer is executing code
that isn't out of place for the producer's main flow.
If the total time to make the call isn't worth it
and the code fits in the producer,
you should take that into consideration.
If, however, your code is out of place
or the complexity of more components is easily replaced
by the reduced processing time, this is a great trade-off.
Finally, you must plan for failure scenario.
Usually in this model,
you will build an adjoining dead-letter queue.
Use that dead-letter queue, but more importantly,
don't just ignore it.
Build in processing to inspect the DLQ regularly
and ensure that you aren't getting messages there.
Better yet, alert when you do get them.
If you can respond to errors programmatically,
feel free to do so.
But in my experience, the cause of the DLQ
makes it such that the message
needs manual intervention oftentimes.